# Seismology_Prediction_
 According to BBC statistics, data changes for each earthquake that has occurred thus far. Thousands of people are killed, 50,000 are injured, 1-3 million are dislocated, and a considerable number of people go missing or become homeless. The structural damage is over 100 percent. It also has an impact on the economic loss, which ranges from ten to sixteen million dollars. A magnitude of 5 or higher is considered the worst. The most deadly earthquake to date happened in Indonesia, killing around 3 million people, injuring 1-2 million, and causing 100% structural damage. As a result, the effects of an earthquake are devastating, causing huge changes in everything from the environment and lifestyle to the economy. Each of these factors contributes to earthquake prediction. A precise forecaster is being constructed and developed in the current circumstances , a machine that will predict the future disaster. Using machine learning methods focuses on recognizing early indicators of an earthquake. The system is entitled to the fundamentals of constructing learning systems as well as the data science life cycle. Government sources provide data sets for the Indian subcontinent and the rest of the world. After preprocessing the data, a stacking model is built using RF and SVM algorithms. This mathematical model is created by algorithms using "training data-set".  The  models seeks out patterns which lead to disaster & adapts its structure to them in order to make decisions and forecasts without being explicitly adapted to carry out the mission. Keywords: Support vector Machine, Earthquake, Forecast, Machine Learning, Random Forest.

 A Stacking Regressor Model :

             Bagging, Boosting, and stacking are just a few of the strategies to ensemble models in machine learning. Stacking is a prominent ensemble machine learning strategy for predicting several nodes and improving performance of the model. It allows to train numerous model to address the similar issues & then create a new model with superior performance based on their combined output.
A ml model that integrates the predictions of two or more models is known as an ensembled model.
A method of ensemble learning is stacking regression. As a result of the collaboration of  Using the meta-features generated by independent regression models using an an absolute training set as a basis, a meta-regressor is developed that determines the best fit. 

Results:
 
              For large datasets, the combination of the random forest and support vector machine models works well. In comparison to the bagging and enhancing precision, the accuracy of the The stacking model has the highest score of 83.percent. For each methodology, the response time is the same. The time spent training for stacking is slightly longer.
